The description from the manuscript: We used WGS-derived genotype data for 163 samples to detect genomic regions with unusually high densities of heterozygous genotypes (i.e., the "high-het" regions). Since the samples are from inbred animals, high-het regions could arise from tandemly repeated segments in the BN genome "folded" into a single region in mRatBN7.2. While read-depth data represent an independent source of information, here we focused on the distribution patterns of heterogeneous genotypes in the 12 BN animals. Indeed, along the genome, the per-site heterozygote counts, ranging 0 to 12 across the 12 BN samples, tend to be high in certain discrete regions, which also tend to have high counts of NA (the "no-calls"). We used the het+NA counts as the scanning statistics for segment-wise switches between a high-state and a low-state, akin to using arrayCGH intensity data or sequencing read depths to detect DNA copy-number variants (CNVs). Specifically, we added 2 to the per-site het+NA counts, to mimic the situation with 2 DNA copies in baseline regions and up to 14 copies in the high-regions. The logged values, ranging from log2(2) to log2(14), are "segmented" by using the segment command in R package "DNAcopy", with parameters min.width=5,alpha=0.001. The results tend to be over-segmented, and they are merged by a custom R script with the following merging rules. Starting from the first three segments, we merge the first and the second segments if one of the four conditions are met: (1) both have mean values above 1.5, which is an empirically derived threshold in our log2(x+2) scale, (2) both have mean values below 1.5, (3) the three segments are high-low-high but the middle segment is less than 5 kb, hence a "positive flicker", or (4) the three segments are low-high-low with the middle segment shorter than 5 kb: a "negative flicker". If the first two segments are merged, the next "triplet" to be evaluated are the merged 1-2, the previous #3 segment, and the newly called-up $4 segment. If no merging is executed, the scan moves by one segment to evaluate the next "triplet": #2-4. This operation was repeated until we reach the end of the chromosome. Altering the merging parameters will yield a somewhat different set of "flagged" regions. The current merged list contains 673 high-segments over the 20 autosomes, covering about 1.4% of mRatBN7.2 and having an average length of 52,199 nt. Future iterations will incorporate distribution patterns of read depth, multi-allelic sites and, if possible, linked read information. Similar scans can be performed for the 151 non-BN samples. Our preliminary data show that most of the regions flagged by the 12 BN samples also show high Het+NA counts in non-BN samples. In addition, some other heterozygous genotypes in non-BN samples fall outside the flagged regions, either individually or in new segments not flagged in BN samples. Many of them likely represent single-site or segment-wise differences between these strains and the reference strain: BN, and they may vary in a strain-specific fashion.
The folder contains the following files:
(**1)"convert_gt.docx": R function that converts genotypes codes "0/0", "0/1", and "1/1" into "0", "1", and "2", respectively, with missing or non-diploid genotypes converted into "NA". 
(**2)"segmentation.docx": main R scripts for the analysis
(**3)"Merge_segment.docx": the R function for merging the segments from DNAcopy output into merged segments

